hey I'm Bobby I like to make stuff today
we're going to 3d print a stormtrooper
helmet as you probably know I'm a huge
Star Wars nerd and this is my version of
the shore trooper from the new road one
star wars story movie this thing was a
huge amount of work but I'm super happy
with how it turned out let me show you
how i did it i modeled this entire
project in fusion 360 and it was a
fantastic way for me to learn more about
the software i added some reference
images from the front and the side and
model to match those images based on the
different views
I can't show you the entire modeling
process here because i had probably 40
or 50 hours into this model but i will
say that it was a huge learning
experience
I got far more comfortable with the
software and I think the next project
idea infusion is going to be even better
after I had it fully modeled I cut the
model into several pieces each of which
was small enough to fit on the print bed
of my printer then I just printed them
out there is a huge amount of print time
and obviously I can't show you that
either but here's some views of the
different parts coming together finally
got all the major pieces for this
printed and they turned out fantastic
almost all these pieces have some sort
of a support material that held them to
the print bed so i have to cut all those
away before I can start assembling it in
total there are 11 pieces that are
roughly the size and each one took
anywhere from eight hours to 18 hours to
print so I have a huge amount of print
time into this and I'm really glad to
have a point now where I see pieces that
i can start putting together but first I
had to finish cleaning up the pieces
there actually wasn't a whole lot to
clean up most of the support material
was on the inside but there are a few
pieces like this on the bottom where had
to use a knife and some sandpaper to get
them fully smooth mostly i use the
sandpaper to flatten the edges that
we're going to be glued together the
flatter the surface the better the seam
is going to look
once they were pretty good i use some
activator on one side and some CA glue
on the other side these locked together
immediately when they touch the rest of
the pieces went together very quickly
it's just important to make sure that
you started the corners and put the
pieces together so that the seams are
flush and nice and tight
it was really cool to see this thing
start to turn into an actual shape of a
helmet and once i got these pieces
together i started to get super excited
over almost of the seams turned out
really nicely but they weren't all
perfectly flat so to fill in the gaps
they use some bonding this is a two-part
mixture that they use to fill body work
on cars actually mixed it a little wrong
the first time and set up too quickly so
i had to experiment with how much harder
to use based on how much putty
eventually got a pretty good mixture and
was able to add some of this overall the
seams
I had to do several coats of this adding
some sanding it down flush and then
adding some more to completely hide all
of the connection points between these
panels i found that by putting it on a
little bit thicker and then going back
with a knife before completely set up it
was easy to get rid of some of the high
spots that made the sanding process that
much easier
also make sure you wear a respirator
when you do this stuff because it's
nasty and you don't need to breathe it
now i sanded a lot on this entire
project i sanded and bondo and sanded
and bonded over and over and eventually
use the tack cloth to give them all the
dust and then blew it off with an air
blower then it was time to get the
surface is flat but instead of just
sending them all I started out with some
filler primer this fills in some of the
area in between the build lines of the
3d print it also makes it really obvious
where those build lines are you know
where sand but before removing the bill
binds I tried to clean up the details
first i use some sanding blocks on
little pieces of wood to get rid of
stuff in the corners a lot of this was
leftover bondo that i thought i had
sanded down well enough they actually
didn't you can see here where the shapes
are still sticking out from the bondo
underneath i spent the time to get rid
of all those details first before
working on the overall sanding mass of
all the surfaces to start cleaning up
the main surface they used a fine
sanding sponge
these are nice because they bend over
curves and do a pretty even job sanding
after that i use some flexible 220
sandpaper and just went over everything
again this process just happens over and
over until you get to finish that you
want
i sanded up to high grits then remove
the dust with attack cloth and then add
another layer of primer the primer dries
pretty quickly and eventually I got to a
point where i was making marks in the
areas that needed to be corrected rather
than sending the entire surface every
single time and after far more sanding
then I would have been happy to do it
was pretty much done so i cleaned off
everything one final time and then added
one final coat of primer this was a nice
thick coat but I was really careful to
make sure i didn't get any drips or
anything because this coat just got
sanded down with some super fine
sandpaper to get ready for paint
i also printed out a few detailed pieces
that needed to be painted black on these
I just had to really saying the edges to
make sure that they would fit into the
home that where they went after i did a
test fit and was happy with them and
just did one coat of primer and then
some paint it was finally time for full
color on the whole helmet i grabbed the
rattle can from the local store that I
thought might be the right color and
once i got sprayed on it wasn't I
decided just to use it as a base coat
instead so instead for the final coat
and mixed up some acrylics and just
played with the color until I got
something that I thought was pretty
close to the images that i was looking
at it maybe a little bit too yellow but
I think it'll work out i also got out my
cheap airbrush the first time i've never
used it before and it was a really good
experience trying to figure out how to
use it and apply color often airbrushes
are used to add details rather than
fully covering something but this was
kind of the best way for me to add all
of this color it just took a long time
it took several tries eventually I had
really even color that I was happy with
next I added the detail pieces using
some CA glue i wasn't sure that CA would
be strong enough to hold the visor on
since it's pretty large so I mixed up
some two-part five-minute epoxy i
smeared quite a bit of the epoxy on to
the helmet where I knew it would meet
the advisor then position the visor and
make sure I had it at
a right angle was actually kind of tough
to get it centered and make sure that I
have it right then I just had to hold it
in place while the epoxy set up next it
was time to add the pain that looked
like it would have been there if the
helmet was brand-new the black line
around the top of the visor was the
biggest detail that needed to be painted
in but i wanted to have a clean line on
the underside so i use some masking tape
that's made for pinstriping and put that
down there coat it over the whole thing
with black and then pulled off the tape
it ended up with a really nice clean
line I filled in some of the other
details on the helmet and then mascot a
couple other areas to fill in with black
for the insignia that goes on the visor
i use my vinyl cutter and cut out a
little stencil i use my airbrush to fill
this in with red now the Red didn't go
on very well and to get it nice and
opaque I had to do several coats i was
really happy with how it turned out
there and then it was time for
weathering you some burnt number to
start with and made awash with a whole
lot of water i smeared it on with a
paper towel and got a really really wet
and then went back with a wet paper
towel and wiped the majority of it off i
did the same thing with black and
actually ended up using a lot more black
than part number and eventually all the
cracks and the seams get filled in with
this stuff and it just adds a layer of
grime that makes it look like it was
used after i was happy with that I went
back with the chip brush and some black
paint and went over the edges to make it
look like the paint had been scraped off
and it was a black metal underneath this
is a technique that it's really easy to
overdo so i had to stop myself and just
call it done
finally it was time to make the visor to
do this i put a piece of paper on the
inside and trace the rough shape
this gave me an idea of how big of a
piece of plexiglass and needed to cut at
the bandsaw i just cut out a little
strip of the thinnest plexiglass I had
around and then used to heat gun to
start bending into shape
I messed with it until I got just about
the right curve in general and then fit
on the inside of the helmet once i was
happy with the overall shape i had to do
the details and get the corners been
outright for this I held it in place and
use the heat gun but be careful because
you can melt the 3d printed material as
well once the shape was a pretty good
fit
it was time to add
and for this I'm just using regular
window tint and cleaned off the
Plexiglas with some window cleaner and
then cut a piece of the tent that was a
little bit bigger than what i needed a
peeled off the backing and sprayed it
with some soapy water and then started
to apply it to the Plexiglas this is not
something i have any experience with and
having the curve plexiglass make it more
difficult but eventually I got most of
the air bubble smoothed out i used to
squeeze me to get rid of the air bubbles
and then use the heat gun to bend the
corners of the tent around the corners
of the plastic just took quite a while
and I don't have all the footage here
but eventually I was pretty happy with
it
I fit the lens on the inside of the
helmet and held it in its final position
then i trace the outside the point of
this is to show where the piece of
plexiglass is going to sit so that i can
add some adhesive mixed up some more
two-part epoxy and then apply it to the
areas where it marked I made sure not to
put it too close to the eye opening
because I didn't want to squeeze out and
get on the lens
finally I mask off the lens and then
whenever the whole thing with a couple
of codes of Matt clear coat to protect
the paint and here it is completely
finished and I couldn't be happier with
it i'm super happy with how this thing
turned out even though it's not a
hundred percent screen accurate as I was
assembling and painting it found several
things about the model that are not
quite right but overall I mean it's a
stormtrooper helmet supercool regardless
of the imperfections i love how it came
out and this might be my favorite
project that I've ever made
originally I only wanted to make the
helmet just as a prop but now I kinda
want to make all the armor pieces as
well so i may end up doing that on my
live stream on twitch i also think
projects like this are really good
example of how 3d printing can enhance
the stuff that you're making rather than
just 3d printing something use it as a
step in a larger project if you are as
excited about Road one and star wars in
general as i am let me know down in the
comments
no spoilers I've got several other 3d
printing projects that you might be
interested in as well as tons of other
woodworking and metalworking and
electronics and all sorts of stuff so be
sure to check those out if you like this
video I'd love to have you subscribe and
i have a second channel with some
behind-the-scenes stuff that's it for
this week guys thanks for watching the
next